
---
title: Selected Problems in CLRS
subtitle: Section 10
geometry: margin=2.5cm
haeder-include: | 
  \usepackage{kotex}  
---

## Notifications


***Problem Difficulty*** (count with star)

1. you can solve w/o the brain
2. you can solve if you think a bit
3. you can solve if you think carefully
4. you might solve if you push yourself
5. you can solve if you use other's brain

## Exercise

***10.1-1*** $\star$

Using Figure 10.1 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{USH}}(S, 4)$, $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{USH}}(S, 1)$, $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{USH}}(S, 3)$, $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{OP}}(S)$, $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{USH}}(S, 8)$, $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{OP}}(S)$ on an initially empty stack $S$ stored in array $S[1..6]$.

***10.1-2*** $\star\star$

Explain how to implement two stacks in one array $A[1..n]$ in such a way that neither stack overflows unless the total number of elements in both stacks together is $n$. The $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{USH}}$ and $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{OP}}$ operations should run in $O(1)$ time.

> **Hint :** there are many ways to do it. One interesting implementation is found at linux memory management. The growth directions of stack and heap is opposite.

***10.1-3*** $\star$

Using Figure 10.1 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence $\text{E}{\scriptsize \text{NQUEUE}}(Q, 4)$, $\text{E}{\scriptsize \text{NEQUEUE}}(Q, 1)$, $\text{E}{\scriptsize \text{NQUEUE}}(Q, 3)$, $\text{D}{\scriptsize \text{EQUEUE}}(S)$, $\text{E}{\scriptsize \text{NQUEUE}}(S, 8)$, $\text{D}{\scriptsize \text{EQUEUE}}(S)$ on an initially empty queue $Q$ stored in array $Q[1..6]$.

***10.1-6*** $\star\star$

Show how to implement a queue using two stacks. Analyze the running time of the queue operatios.

***10.1-7*** $\star\star$

Show how to implement a stack using two queues. Analyze the running time of the stack operations.

***10.2-2*** $\star\star$

Implement a stack using a singly linked list $L$.

***10.2-3*** $\star\star$

Implement a queue using a singly linked list $L$.

\clearpage

***10.4-1*** $\star\star$

Draw the binary tree rooted at index 6 that is represented by the following attributes


|index|key|left|right|
|-----|---|----|-----|
|1    |12 |7   |3    |
|2    |15 |8   |NIL  |
|3    |4  |10  |NIL  |
|4    |10 |5   |9    |
|5    |2  |NIL |NIL  |
|6    |18 |1   |4    |
|7    |7  |NIL |NIL  |
|8    |14 |6   |2    |
|9    |21 |NIL |NIL  |
|10   |5  |NIL |NIL  |

***10.4-5*** $\star\star\star$

Write an $O(n)$-time nonrecursive procedure that, given an $n$-node binary tree, prints out the key of each node. Use no more than constant extra space outside of the tree itself and do not modify the tree, even temporarily, during the procedure.

> **Note :** it is important at other applications

