
---
title: Selected Problems in CLRS
subtitle: Section 5
geometry: margin=2.5cm
haeder-include: | 
  \usepackage{kotex}  
---

Randomized Algorithms are very interesting part. You might learn(have learned) this cheaper in Engineering Mathematics 2.

## Notifications

***Problem Difficulty*** (count with star)

1. you can solve w/o the brain
2. you can solve if you think a bit
3. you can solve if you think carefully
4. you might solve if you push yourself
5. you can solve if you use other's brain

## Exercise

***5.1-2*** $\star\star\star$

Describe an implementation of the procedure $\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}(a,b)$ that only makes calls to $\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}(0,1)$. What is the expected running time of your procedure, as a function of a and b?.

> **Note :**  $\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}(a,b)$ is the function that uniformly sample integer $n \in [a, b]$
> 
> **Hint1 :** What if $a=0, b=2^k-1$? ($\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}(0,2^k-1)$)
>
> **Hint2 :** To compute expacted running time, you may use geometric distribution



***5.1-3*** $\star\star\star$

Suppose that you want to output 0 with probability 1/2 and 1 with probability 1/2. At your disposal is a procedure $\text{B}{\scriptsize \text{IASED}}-\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}$, that output either 0 or 1. It outputs 1 with some probability p and 0 with probability 1-p, where 0 < p < 1, but you do not know what p is. Give an algorithm that uses $\text{B}{\scriptsize \text{IASED}}-\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}$ as a subroutine, and returns an unbiased answer, returning 0 with probability 1/2 and 1 with probability 1/2. What is the expected running time of your algorithm as a function of p?

> **Hint :** You may use two $\text{B}{\scriptsize \text{IASED}}-\text{R}{\scriptsize \text{ANDOM}}$ at one iteration. what probability of two events are same?

***5.2-4*** $\star\star\star$

Use indicator random variables to solve the following problem, which is known as the ***hat-check problem***. Each of n customers gives a hat to a hat-check person at a restaurant. The hat-check person gives the hats back to the customers in a random order. What is the expected number of customers who get back their own hat?

> **Hint :** you can solve easily using linearlity of expactation.

***5.2-5*** $\star\star\star$

Let $A[1..n]$ be an array of $n$ distinct numbers. If $i < j$ and $A[i] > A[j]$, then the pair $(i, j)$ is called an ***inversion*** of $A$. Suppose that the elements of A form a uniform random permutation of $\langle 1, 2, ..., n\rangle$. Use indicator random variable to compute the expected number of inversions.

> **Hint1 :** you can solve easily using linearlity of expactation.
>
> **Hint2 :** If $(i,j)$ is inversion then $I[i, j] = 1$ else $I[i, j] = 0$. What is $\sum{I[i, j]}$ ?



***5.3-2*** $\star\star\star$

Professor Kelp decides to write a prodecure that produces at random any permutation besides the identity permutation. He proposed the following procedure:

```
PERMUTE-WITHOUT_IDENTITY(A)
n = A.length
for i = 1 to n-1
  swap A[i] with A[RANDOM(i+1, n)]
```

> **Hint :** Does this algorithm produce every permutation?


***5.3-3*** $\star\star\star\star$

Suppose that instead of swapping element $A[i]$ with a random element from the subarray $A[i .. n]$, we swapped it with a random element froma anywhere in the array:

```
PERMUTE-WITH_ALL(A)
n = A.length
for i = 1 to n
  swap A[i] with A[RANDOM(1, n)]
```

Does this code produce a uniform random permutation? Why or why not?

> **Note :** If it produces a uniform random permutation, the probability of each permutation is $1/n!$

***5.3-5*** $\star\star\star\star$

Prove that in the array $P$ in procedure $\text{P}{\scriptsize \text{ERMUTE}}-\text{B}{\scriptsize \text{Y}}-\text{S}{\scriptsize \text{ORTING}}$, the probability that all elements are unique is at least $1-1/n$

> **Note :** the birthday paradox is similiar with this problem.
